>> Brian Holt: So so far we've been
talking about basically how to interact
with containers and
not necessarily how to build containers.
You never really have to learn how to
build containers if you just learn how to
interact with them that's like most of
the usefulness cuz you can use what other
people have created.
Which generally is most of my interaction
with containers is just using stuff
that people have built for me.
But I am gonna show you in this
section here, Docker files,
as well as in making tiny containers,
we are going to build our own containers.
So let's talk about Docker files.
Docker files are basically as you
might guessed it's a manifest
of what goes into a container.
It's very declarative that you say take
this container, add these things to it,
add these users, copy these files,
run this command, and then you're done.
That's what a Dockerfile is.
The cool thing about having a Dockerfile
is you can build that into a container,
or you can build that into an image,
right?
And then you can use that
image to run containers.
But the fact that you end up with
an image is that you have this like
abstract container you can use over and
over and over and over again.
This is a important concept when it comes
to containers, that people like to say
that, I mean, it's a not everyone likes
this analogy, but I think it illustrates
it well is that you want your containers
to be cattle, not pets, right?
The idea of, if you have a 1,000 heads
of cattle, you don't have a name for
every individual one of them.
They're kinda interchangeable, right?
As opposed to if you have a a pet dog,
like that's Luna, Luna's my dog, right?
That's Luna and
Luna is irreplaceable, right?
You don't want your containers to be
pets because you want them to be,
well I'm done with this one, throw it
away, and then tomorrow when I come back I
can just spin up another one that was just
like it and keep going from that way.
So that's the idea behind cattle, not pet.
You don't wanna have what
we call snowflakes right?
Not like the companies to work for but
like snowflakes in the sense of like,
it's very special,
it's very unique, it's very catered.
Your containers shouldn't be that
way they should be useful and
reusable and disposable.
So it makes sense?
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So let us make the most
basic Node.js Dockerfile ever.
So where am I?
I'm just gonna go on my desktop and
yeah, that's fine.
Make directory, my-project,
something like that.
I'm gonna open this in code.
Get rid of this one, I don't need that.
Don't save that.
Yes, I trust the authors myself or
rather I don't really trust myself but
I don't trust anyone any
more than I trust myself.
Okay, empty project I'm just
gonna create a new file and
I'm gonna call it Dockerfile.
No extension, technically
Dockerfile is the extension, but
just call it capital D dockerfile.
That's what everyone calls them.
Don't ask me, I didn't invent it.
>> Brian Holt: Not that one.
>> Brian Holt: In here, I'm gonna say,
>> Brian Holt: what is
the container that I'm gonna start with?
So this could be from any of the
containers that we've talked about so far.
We're gonna start with node:20.
Be whatever you want.
So what's cool about this is
because it's all Dockerfile,
I have the Docker extension installed.
It gives me some completions and
lets me know what it's expecting,
all that kind of stuff.
CMD is going to tell it what
command that you want it to run.
It's typically the last
line in your Dockerfile.
So I'm gonna say node, I'm gonna put -e,
and I'm gonna say console.log
("hello, or what did I say?
I said,
>> Brian Holt: That look right?
Whatever you wanna put in there.
You typically give it a comma
separated array of all the various
different arguments order
that you wanna put them in.
There's ways of doing it the other way,
but
this is just the way that everyone does
it, so we're gonna stick with that.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm gonna open
my console here and I'm gonna say
docker build..just telling
it where you are, right?
So in this directory,
>> Brian Holt: And
it's gonna build that for me.
>> Brian Holt: So,
you can see that this ended up building.
It took five steps, so
it took basically zero time cuz there's
nothing really here and
we now have a container that doesn't
have a name that would be kind
of hard to run if we wanted to.
I think that's really what
it would be right there.
>> Brian Holt: That's interesting.
I've never looked at this before.
I didn't know they gave you
a URL that you could look at it.
>> Brian Holt: There you go.
Pretty cool, I didn't know it did this.
It gives you some sort of information.
Some source shows the source that
I built it from, which is that.
The logs and history.
None of builds, okay?
Pretty cool.
Didn't know it did that.
>> Brian Holt: All right, so, we did
that for all of these files as well.
By the way, I will have a link to
the project so you can actually copy and
paste the entire thing and
see the entire project.
They're just organized into
directories here for you as well.
Because I don't really expect
you to type all of these.
I don't think it's helpful.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
we built our container and
we're gonna go ahead and
run our container here in just a second.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go grab that ID.
Where is this?
I think it's this one.
>> Brian Holt: So it just gives you
the hash of whatever it is, right?
So I said, run the hash.
And you can see here,
it ran from node.js, hi, right?
Yeah, in case you're not familiar, you can
say node-e, and then whatever string you
gave afterwards, it'll literally
treat that as the file to run.
So that's what we did there.
Cool, so let's talk a tiny
bit about this particular
process that we're going through here.
So we're starting with another image,
right, we didn't build node:20
I have no interest in building node:20
that's maintained by a bunch of security
professionals over a docker that know
an infinite more about security than I do.
And then that container is actually
built on top of another image,
and that image is built on
top of another image, and
then that image is built on top of
base db image that db maintains.
My point here is like it's
really powerful, right?
That we can all kind of like share these
kinds of base images like I could go and
build some sort of like Frontend
masters specific container for
you to get started with building
Frontend masters projects
that can be built on seven
more images before that.
And then we all can just kind of
build stuff on top of each other.
That's like the Docker way, right?
Every single one of these lines
here is called a layer, right?
So you're just layering stuff
one on top of the other, right?
So you notice when you say
like Docker pull something and
it shows you like it's downloading
seven things at the same time, right?
Those are all layers, right?
And so it's just saying like if I stack
all these layers on top of each other,
that it turns into this image,
this container, right?
One that makes it super cashable so
that if you only change the fifth thing of
seven, you don't have to rebuild
everything from one to five because none
of that changed,
none of those layers change.
It's only five, six,
seven that changed, right?
We'll take advantage of that fact
to make our images rebuild really,
really quickly as well.
I'll show you that here in a sec.
But just keep in mind, it's just images
and layers all the way down here.
Okay, so we used from,
that's to start with some sort of image.
And then CMD is basically saying like
when you go to actually execute this,
so this part does not execute
until the container is run, right?
So this doesn't actually run
anywhere inside of build, right?
It only runs in run.
That's something to keep in mind and it
kind of messes with people to keep in mind
of like some of this stuff
runs when you're building,
and some of this stuff runs
when you're executing.
CMD always runs when you're executing.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, we did that.
So this was inconvenient
to remember this hash, so,
I'm gonna show you how to do
that a little bit easier.
So you can say docker build .--tag, and
you can give it a tag of some variety.
So we're gonna call it my-node-app.
Instead of -- tag as well,
you can say just -t.
And so now I have my-node-app.
So I can say docker run my-node-app
much easier than dealing with hashes.
And then you can also do it so
you can version it yourself.
By default, this is getting just one for
version but then we can start giving it
various different tags as well of like
this is version one, this is version two,
version three.
Just like we were seeing with Jammy and
Focal and all of those,
we can give it names, we can give it
numbers, Docker doesn't really care.
It's gonna pull whatever
tag you tell it to.
So let's say, I just say,
can I add something so
it's a tiny bit different.
And I could say a docker build tag:2.
So I built that.
So now if I run my-node-app:1,
what do you think it's gonna say?
>> Speaker 2: The original.
>> Brian Holt: And then if I run out with
2, what do you think it's gonna say?
Right, so it keeps all of them as well,
which is cool.
Very easy versioning.
>> Brian Holt: Question so far?
Yeah, Dustin.
>> Dustin: Will Docker
build create a component or
an image when I run it on my
local machine to create an image.
>> Brian Holt: So it creates an image
then when you go and just say docker run,
it will create container,
it's a bit of a haredess split, I mean,
who really cares at the end of the day?
I call them all container cuz everything
mix up my brain cuz that's having a two
year old does to you but at the end of
the day, we're running containers and
the containers are built from images.
I'm positive that I've probably
mixed it up at least once up here.
So not the most interesting
differentiation between the two.